---
title: What I look for in a Candidate
layout: post
categories: [ Consulting ]
--- 

1. __Experience.__ Nothing trumps experience. The more times you are "at-bat", the more lessons you learn. Particularly experience at progressively higher levels responsibility is desirable. Challenging yourself is ultimately the only way to grow and learn.

2. __Technology aptitude.__ I necessarily mean reciting minute technical details from memory. I mean _understand_ the underlying principles of technology. Abstraction, service oriented architecture, componentization, dependency injection, user experience design. Deep understand of these topics are what separates the great consultants from the rest.

3. __Consulting IQ.__ Soft skill are where we make our money. Reading a room, understanding the motivations involved, working toward a common goal while avoiding or minimizing conflicts. These are things that a consultant does every day. It is hard to judge this quality 

4. __Confidence.__

5. __Inquisitive nature.__ Every single person on this planet should be constantly asking questions and learning. If the candidate is not asking questions (and hopefully intelligent questions), how can I hope to send that person into an unknown client situation and expect good results?

5. __Personality and likability.__ Ultimately our clients are people and people form relationships with others and those relationships affect important decisions. Likability goes a long way toward forging relationships. Simple things, like mentioning a hobby or sharing a laugh about some common interest can add up to extremely valuable relationships over time. Some of this comes from simply liking what you do for a living, but I think mostly it comes from a positive outlook.

6. __Honesty.__ Look, I know that things go sideways on projects. In fact, I would venture to say that every single project has a "sideways" phase at some point in the process. An honest candidate will 

7. __Perspective.__

Both big and small decisions are made based on the confidence that out client has in the team


Deal breakers:

1. __Candidate is too nervous to talk.__
2. __I don't hear excitement.__
3. 


