---
title: Rebellion
layout: post
categories: [ Consulting, Programming ]
---

I think we have all been there. Maybe you were the instigator, maybe you were the manager. Someone is spouting off about this or that. "The company is terrible". If we only had a better processes or if we all just had more of a sense of community. We just need these few things and we will all reach corporate nirvana.

There is a fine line between productive decent and destroying the company from inside out. At many companies today, decent is welcomed and even encouraged in the name of transparency. 

Depending on the company state there may be various levels of acceptance. For a large enterprise, it's not likely that decent will be tolerated if it cuts into productivity. For small companies who value the individual contributions, there is likely a much more open and inviting attitude toward rebellion. In the startup culture, it is downright expected that each team member has a fire in their belly and a cruel disposition to the mundane routine of the masses.

No matter what the situation, I would argue that tolerance toward rebellion is directly proportional to a company's willingness to accept change. For many large companies, change is something that can threaten security and even sink a business if taken too far.

As a manager, it's difficult to strike a balance. I've seen situations where open rebellion against authority was tolerated and lead to a sub-culture which was downright counterproductive. One group decided that they would just do things their own way, devil may care. Now you are dealing with a set of people that feel like they have direct control over every aspect of their daily work. Including what, how and when they work.

